OSSM-8759 Pre-migration checklist for product docs (#88198)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-migrating-premigration-checklists-resource-files.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/checklists/ossm-migrating-premigration-checklists-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-migrating-premigration-checklists-resource-files_{context}"]
= Check your resource files

> By the end of the checklists, you {SMProduct} 2 resource files may look like the following examples:

Reviewer: By the end of the checklists, your* {SMProduct} 2 resources* files

[id="service-mesh-control-plane-resource-file_{context}"]
== The ServiceMeshControlplane resource file

> .Example `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource

Reviewer: because ServiceMeshControlPlane is inside single quote it looks a little weird in the preview, I think if all the resource names are going to be on single quote is Ok, but for example Telemetry and Kiali resource are not

[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: maistra.io/v2
kind: ServiceMeshControlPlane
metadata:
  name: basic
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  version: v2.6 <1>
  security: <2>
    manageNetworkPolicy: false
  addons: #<3>
    grafana:
      enabled: false
    kiali:
      enabled: false
    prometheus:
      enabled: false
  meshConfig: <4>
    extensionProviders:
      - name: prometheus
        prometheus: {}
      - name: otel
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.istio-system.svc.cluster.local
  gateways: <5>
    enabled: false
    openshiftRoute:
      enabled: false
  mode: MultiTenant <6>
  tracing: <7>
    type: None
----
<1> Your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` is updated to the latest {SMProduct} version.
<2> Network policy management is disabled.
<3> Addons are disabled.
<4> Your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource is configured to use external metrics and tracing providers.
<5> Managed gateways are disabled.

> <6> Se to either `MultiTenant` or `ClusterWide`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<6> Set to either `MultiTenant` or `ClusterWide`.
```

> <1> Your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` is updated to the latest {SMProduct} version.
> <2> Network policy management is disabled.
> <3> All `addons` are disabled.
> <4> Your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource is configured to use external metrics and tracing providers.
> <5> Managed gateways are disabled.
> <6> Set to either `MultiTenant` or `ClusterWide`.
> <7> Tracing is disabled.

Reviewer 3: I suggest switching these callouts to active voice. 
```suggestion
<1> Update your `ServiceMeshControlPlane`  resource to the latest {SMProduct} version.
<2> Disable network policy management.
<3> Disable all resources in the `addons` stanza.
<4> Your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource is configured to use external metrics and tracing providers.
<5> Disable managed gateways.
<6> Set to either `MultiTenant` or `ClusterWide`.
<7> Disable tracing.
```

[id="telemetry-resource-file_{context}"]
== Telemetry resource file

> The `Telemetry` resource is in your root namespace. In this example, `istio-system is the root namespace.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `Telemetry` resource is in your root namespace. In this example, `istio-system` is the root namespace.
```

> The `Telemetry` resource is in your root namespace. In this example, `istio-system` is the root namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Telemetry` resource file is located in your root namespace. The following example uses `istio-system` as the root namespace.
```

.Example `Telemetry` resource

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: mesh-default
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  metrics: <1>
    - providers:
        - name: prometheus
  tracing: <2>
    - providers:
        - name: otel
----

> <1> Your metrics provider is specified. The `name` field matches what is specified in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in the `spec.meshConfig.extensionProviders` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> Specify your metrics provider. The `name` field must match what is specified in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in the `spec.meshConfig.extensionProviders` field.
```

> <2> Your tracing provider is specified. The `name` field matches what is specified in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in the `spec.meshConfig.extensionProviders` field.

Reviewer 3: See the previous suggestion

[id="kiali-resource-file_{context}"]
== Kiali resource file

.Example Kiali resource

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kiali
metadata:
  name: kiali
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  version: default <1>
  external_services:
    prometheus: <2>
      auth:
        type: bearer
        use_kiali_token: true
      thanos_proxy:
        enabled: true
      url: https://thanos-querier.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9091
    tracing: <3>
      enabled: true
      provider: tempo
      use_grpc: false
      internal_url: http://tempo-sample-query-frontend.tempo:3200
      external_url: https://tempo-sample-query-frontend-tempo.apps-crc.testing
    grafana: <4>
      enabled: false
----

> <1> As long as you install {SMProduct} Operator 3 before upgrading Kiali, this version is compatible with both {SMProduct } 2.6 and {SMProduct} 3.0 control planes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> As long as you install {SMProduct} Operator 3 before upgrading Kiali, this version is compatible with both {SMProduct} 2.6 and {SMProduct} 3.0 control planes.
```

> <1> As long as you install {SMProduct} Operator 3 before upgrading Kiali, this version is compatible with both {SMProduct} 2.6 and {SMProduct} 3.0 control planes.

Reviewer 3: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#as-long-as
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#update

I also think "... this version" is a bit confusing when recommending the value of `default`. Is there a way to reword that? Something like, "You can use the `default` value of the `version` parameter if you install SMO3 before updating Kiali. The default version is compatible with both 2.6 and 3.0 CPs..."

<2> Kiali is configured to use external Prometheus.
<3> Kiali is configured to use the external tracing store.

> <4> Grafana configuration is disabled. Grafana is not supported with {SMProduct} 3.0.

Reviewer 3: Similar to the previous comments, I suggest rewriting this in active voice.
